slides.md, before:

autoscale: true

![][title]

# [fit] Vim for
# [fit] Mere Mortals

[@VimIndy][vimindy] 05.2016

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# [fit] __Who__ am I?

![][claytron-avatar]

[@claytron][claytron] on the internets

Senior Software Engineer at TinderBox ![fit][tinderbox]

Vim Evangelist

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [fit] ![inline][vim-logo] **is** hard.

^ Steep learning curve.
Take it one step at a time.
Here are some resources to help you out.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Don't `:quit!` just yet...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`$ vimtutor`

^ Get used to the default controls.
Build a strong basis in Vim usage.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`:Tutor`

in [Neovim][neovim]

^ Built in to Neovim.
Available as [vim-tutor-mode][vim-tutor-mode] plugin.
Some plugins have written tutorials.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`:help`

^ There is always help available.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`:tab help intro`

^ Easier to read in a tab.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][help]

VimIndy Slack.

`#vim` on Freenode.

[Vi and Vim][vi-stackexchange] StackExchange.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][sensible]

Use [vim-sensible][vim-sensible] to start out.

Or go all in with [Janus][janus].

^ Sensible is a nice starting point.
Janus is over the top and opinionated.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][arrow-keys]

# Arrow Keys?

^ Don't worry about forcing `hjkl` at first!
We want to make the switch as easy as possible.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![350%][modal]

# [fit] **Modal** Editing

^ This is what makes Vim powerful.
But confuses newbies.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Normal**
Visual
Select
**Insert**
**Command**
Ex

^ Vim has 6 basic modes.
We'll focus on these three.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> How do you generate a random string?
> Put a first year CS student in front of Vim and tell him to save and exit.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Normal** Mode

^ This is the mode you start in.
And the start of the confusion.
All your keys are now shortcuts.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Insert** Mode

^ Just like it sounds.
This is the only mode of most editors.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Command** Mode

^ This is a way to interact with Vim.
Run commands, change settings, etc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][plugins]

## [fit] Plugins

^ Enhance the editor.
You will be doing this very soon.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# **Plugin** Managers

Pathogen
Vundle
**vim-plug**
vim-addon-manager
dein.vim
Vizardry
Vimana

^ There are a lot of choices.
Just use `vim-plug`!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Install **Plugins**

```vim
call plug#begin()
Plug 'tpope/vim-sensible'
Plug 'scrooloose/nerdtree'
call plug#end()
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][pillaging]

# [fit] Pillaging `.vimrc`

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# [fit] THE END

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Links

- [@VimIndy][vimindy]
- [vim.org][vim]
- [Neovim][neovim]
- [Help always in a tab][vim-help-tab]

![right filtered][links]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Screencasts

- [Vimcasts][vimcasts]
- [Derek Wyatt Tutorials][derek-wyatt-tutorials]

![right filtered][links]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Articles / Books

- [Learn Vim Progressively][learn-vim-progressively]
- [Coming Home to Vim][coming-home-to-vim]
- [Everyone Who Tried to Convince Me to use Vim was Wrong][yehuda-rant]
- [Learn to Speak Vim][learn-to-speak-vim]
- [Vim Text Objects: The Definitive Guide][vim-text-objects]
- [Practical Vim][practical-vim]

![right filtered][links]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Photo Credits

Title ([B.B. Wijdieks][title-credit])
Sensible ([@matt_gibson][sensible-credit])
Arrow Keys ([@regocasasnovas][arrow-keys-credit])
Help ([@carbonated][help-credit])
Modal ([@chrisobayda][modal-credit])
Plugins ([@chicagobart][plugins-credit])
Pillaging ([Damian Gadal][pillaging-credit])
Links ([@volvob12b][links-credit])
:arrow_left: This Picture ([@rhodes][images-credit])

Thanks to [![][flickr-logo]][flickr]<br>and [![][cc-logo]][cc]

![left filtered][images]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[![inline 200%][cc-by-sa-4-0-logo]][cc-by-sa-4-0]

Vim for Mere Mortals by [claytron][claytron] is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][cc-by-sa-4-0].

[//]: # ( Links                                                               )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
[vimindy]: https://twitter.com/vimindy
[claytron]: http://twitter.com/claytron
[claytron-avatar]: images/claytron.jpg
[tinderbox]: images/TinderboxLogo.png
[vim-logo]: images/vim-logo.png
[vim]: http://www.vim.org/
[vim-tutor-mode]: https://github.com/fmoralesc/vim-tutor-mode
[neovim]: https://neovim.io
[vim-sensible]: https://github.com/tpope/vim-sensible/
[janus]: https://github.com/carlhuda/janus/
[vi-stackexchange]: https://vi.stackexchange.com
[vim-help-tab]: https://github.com/claytron/dotfiles/blob/bfb8a497f1fd770cbed612f9401a7a335736e8ff/.vimrc#L731
[vimcasts]: http://vimcasts.org/
[derek-wyatt-tutorials]: http://derekwyatt.org/vim/tutorials/
[learn-vim-progressively]: http://yannesposito.com/Scratch/en/blog/Learn-Vim-Progressively/
[coming-home-to-vim]: http://stevelosh.com/blog/2010/09/coming-home-to-vim/
[yehuda-rant]: http://yehudakatz.com/2010/07/29/everyone-who-tried-to-convince-me-to-use-vim-was-wrong/
[learn-to-speak-vim]: http://yanpritzker.com/2011/12/16/learn-to-speak-vim-verbs-nouns-and-modifiers/
[vim-text-objects]: http://blog.carbonfive.com/2011/10/17/vim-text-objects-the-definitive-guide/
[practical-vim]: https://pragprog.com/book/dnvim2/practical-vim-second-edition

[//]: # ( Online Videos                                                       )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )

[//]: # ( CC Images                                                           )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
[title]: images/title.jpg
[title-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/jaYcP6
[sensible]: images/sensible.jpg
[sensible-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/dMBvmp
[arrow-keys]: images/arrow_keys.jpg
[arrow-keys-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/7vSVVd
[help]: images/help.jpg
[help-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/3q8dM
[modal]: images/modal.jpg
[modal-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/bZDVDs
[plugins]: images/plugins.jpg
[plugins-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/7SQuUv
[pillaging]: images/pillaging.jpg
[pillaging-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/58ifNU
[links]: images/links.jpg
[links-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/fTfXkN
[images]: images/images.jpg
[images-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/dDdb1M
[cc-logo]: images/cc.logo.large.png
[cc]: https://creativecommons.org
[flickr-logo]: images/flickr.png
[flickr]: https://www.flickr.com

[//]: # ( CC Attribution                                                      )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
[cc-by-sa-4-0-logo]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-4-0]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )

Commit message:

start of vim text object explanation

slides.md, after:

autoscale: true

![][title]

# [fit] Vim for
# [fit] Mere Mortals

[@VimIndy][vimindy] 05.2016

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# [fit] __Who__ am I?

![][claytron-avatar]

[@claytron][claytron] on the internets

Senior Software Engineer at TinderBox ![fit][tinderbox]

Vim Evangelist

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [fit] ![inline][vim-logo] **is** hard.

^ Steep learning curve.
Take it one step at a time.
Here are some resources to help you out.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Don't `:quit!` just yet...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`$ vimtutor`

^ Get used to the default controls.
Build a strong basis in Vim usage.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`:Tutor`

in [Neovim][neovim]

^ Built in to Neovim.
Available as [vim-tutor-mode][vim-tutor-mode] plugin.
Some plugins have written tutorials.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`:help`

^ There is always help available.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`:tab help intro`

^ Easier to read in a tab.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][help]

VimIndy Slack.

`#vim` on Freenode.

[Vi and Vim][vi-stackexchange] StackExchange.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][sensible]

Use [vim-sensible][vim-sensible] to start out.

Or go all in with [Janus][janus].

^ Sensible is a nice starting point.
Janus is over the top and opinionated.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][arrow-keys]

# Arrow Keys?

^ Don't worry about forcing `hjkl` at first!
We want to make the switch as easy as possible.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![350%][modal]

# [fit] **Modal** Editing

^ This is what makes Vim powerful.
But confuses newbies.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Normal**
Visual
Select
**Insert**
**Command**
Ex

^ Vim has 6 basic modes.
We'll focus on these three.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> How do you generate a random string?
> Put a first year CS student in front of Vim and tell him to save and exit.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Normal** Mode

^ This is the mode you start in.
And the start of the confusion.
All your keys are now shortcuts.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Insert** Mode

^ Just like it sounds.
This is the only mode of most editors.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Command** Mode

^ This is a way to interact with Vim.
Run commands, change settings, etc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![70%][speak-vim]

# [fit] Vim! Do you **speak** it?

^ Once you know the basics, learn to speak vim.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TODO: Vim Text Objects, etc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][plugins]

## [fit] Plugins

^ Enhance the editor.
You will be doing this very soon.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# **Plugin** Managers

Pathogen
Vundle
**vim-plug**
vim-addon-manager
dein.vim
Vizardry
Vimana

^ There are a lot of choices.
Just use `vim-plug`!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Install **Plugins**

```vim
call plug#begin()
Plug 'tpope/vim-sensible'
Plug 'scrooloose/nerdtree'
call plug#end()
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![][pillaging]

# [fit] Pillaging `.vimrc`

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# [fit] THE END

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Links

- [@VimIndy][vimindy]
- [vim.org][vim]
- [Neovim][neovim]
- [Help always in a tab][vim-help-tab]

![right filtered][links]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Screencasts

- [Vimcasts][vimcasts]
- [Derek Wyatt Tutorials][derek-wyatt-tutorials]

![right filtered][links]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Articles / Books

- [Learn Vim Progressively][learn-vim-progressively]
- [Coming Home to Vim][coming-home-to-vim]
- [Everyone Who Tried to Convince Me to use Vim was Wrong][yehuda-rant]
- [Learn to Speak Vim][learn-to-speak-vim]
- [Vim Text Objects: The Definitive Guide][vim-text-objects]
- [Practical Vim][practical-vim]

![right filtered][links]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Photo Credits

Title ([B.B. Wijdieks][title-credit])
Sensible ([@matt_gibson][sensible-credit])
Arrow Keys ([@regocasasnovas][arrow-keys-credit])
Help ([@carbonated][help-credit])
Modal ([@chrisobayda][modal-credit])
Do you speak it? ([@reallyboring][speak-vim-credit])
Plugins ([@chicagobart][plugins-credit])
Pillaging ([Damian Gadal][pillaging-credit])
Links ([@volvob12b][links-credit])
:arrow_left: This Picture ([@rhodes][images-credit])

Thanks to [![][flickr-logo]][flickr]<br>and [![][cc-logo]][cc]

![left filtered][images]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[![inline 200%][cc-by-sa-4-0-logo]][cc-by-sa-4-0]

Vim for Mere Mortals by [claytron][claytron] is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][cc-by-sa-4-0].

[//]: # ( Links                                                               )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
[vimindy]: https://twitter.com/vimindy
[claytron]: http://twitter.com/claytron
[claytron-avatar]: images/claytron.jpg
[tinderbox]: images/TinderboxLogo.png
[vim-logo]: images/vim-logo.png
[vim]: http://www.vim.org/
[vim-tutor-mode]: https://github.com/fmoralesc/vim-tutor-mode
[neovim]: https://neovim.io
[vim-sensible]: https://github.com/tpope/vim-sensible/
[janus]: https://github.com/carlhuda/janus/
[vi-stackexchange]: https://vi.stackexchange.com
[vim-help-tab]: https://github.com/claytron/dotfiles/blob/bfb8a497f1fd770cbed612f9401a7a335736e8ff/.vimrc#L731
[vimcasts]: http://vimcasts.org/
[derek-wyatt-tutorials]: http://derekwyatt.org/vim/tutorials/
[learn-vim-progressively]: http://yannesposito.com/Scratch/en/blog/Learn-Vim-Progressively/
[coming-home-to-vim]: http://stevelosh.com/blog/2010/09/coming-home-to-vim/
[yehuda-rant]: http://yehudakatz.com/2010/07/29/everyone-who-tried-to-convince-me-to-use-vim-was-wrong/
[learn-to-speak-vim]: http://yanpritzker.com/2011/12/16/learn-to-speak-vim-verbs-nouns-and-modifiers/
[vim-text-objects]: http://blog.carbonfive.com/2011/10/17/vim-text-objects-the-definitive-guide/
[practical-vim]: https://pragprog.com/book/dnvim2/practical-vim-second-edition

[//]: # ( Online Videos                                                       )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )

[//]: # ( CC Images                                                           )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
[title]: images/title.jpg
[title-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/jaYcP6
[sensible]: images/sensible.jpg
[sensible-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/dMBvmp
[arrow-keys]: images/arrow_keys.jpg
[arrow-keys-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/7vSVVd
[help]: images/help.jpg
[help-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/3q8dM
[modal]: images/modal.jpg
[modal-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/bZDVDs
[speak-vim]: images/speak_vim.jpg
[speak-vim-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/5bwqyZ
[plugins]: images/plugins.jpg
[plugins-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/7SQuUv
[pillaging]: images/pillaging.jpg
[pillaging-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/58ifNU
[links]: images/links.jpg
[links-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/fTfXkN
[images]: images/images.jpg
[images-credit]: https://flic.kr/p/dDdb1M
[cc-logo]: images/cc.logo.large.png
[cc]: https://creativecommons.org
[flickr-logo]: images/flickr.png
[flickr]: https://www.flickr.com

[//]: # ( CC Attribution                                                      )
[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
[cc-by-sa-4-0-logo]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-4-0]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

[//]: # ( ------------------------------------------------------------------- )
